Tools Being Used and the Feedback From It
------

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;This week I got more work done on the different enemy AI and how they interact with the player. When I began work on them however, I rand into some unforeseen bugs when interacting with the pathing system with the new AI that I was making. At this point, the pathing system that I have made has had trouble in the past, but I've become very antiquated with how the code works after fixing and updating it multiple times. In this case, fining the bug and fixing it took very little time. The problem came from if a new node that was put into the level did not create any new connections, the system would not reset properly because no path was found, which caused the other paths after checking for this node not to work. So I'm happy that it was not a serious issue with the pathfinding itself.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;What was particulary interesting this week, and maybe a little stressful, was that the system was used by Evan for the first time to help create the QA build for the week. In previous weeks, we had the enemies be able to attack the player, but not be able to patrol the environment, creating a very static environment where the player had to go to the enemies instead of the enemies happening to come to them. So for this week we implemented the tools I had been creating and my designer took it to the test of seeing what it could do. Now, I have said in the past that I do not like gameplay programming because I don't find it particularly fun, and I dislike having to figure out code that can be impervious to anything a player will do in an attempt to break what I have created (which is what they should be doing anyway). In this scenereo, my designer is like a player, where they will make assumptions in how the system works, and will push the system in different ways that I had not conceived of which may inevitably present holes to patch in the system. As I watched him use what I had made, I was definitely nervous because he started placing nodes all over the environment in different locations and making patrol paths that looked very complicated that I did not know if everything would hold up. I tried to give some helpful siggestions as to what to do with the system and how to use it initially, but tried to stay away to let him work and also to just see if everything worked in general.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In the end the system did hold up as well as I hoped and the system was successful! There were a few suggestions that Evan gave to possibly improve upon it in the future, mostly more user feedback and more options with interacting with the system that I had not thought of. Mainly any bugs that came out of it belonged to the enemy AI itself, and not the system itself, such as the enemies getting caught on surfaces and needs collision detection. But it was a very encouraging experience to see something that I made be a useful tool for someone else work successfully. It only reinforces the reason why I like making tools, and I will strive to make more tools in the future and improve on the ones that I've made.
