Narrowing Down The Ideas and Coming With Our Name
------

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;From the class period at the end of week one, the team was suprised by the reaction to some of our game ideas. Some of our favorites going into the class session were met with some bored faces, where others which we thought had less merit seemed to entice the class. One of the ideas included a 2 Vs. 2 maze runner game which pitted each team, containing a runner and a builder, against each other. Some people brought it up that it sounded like a solid foundation for a game idea with a lot of room to build off of. So taking the feedback from the class we narrowed down to the top three ideas that the team liked at this current point and wanted to take forwards into a preliminary prototyping stage. The following ideas are the ones that we chose:


⋅⋅* **Arachnotank** - The player plays as a spider tank which can climb on all surfaces to attack its enemies. All the other enemies will be styles as mechnoid bugs which will have abilities based off of the type of bug they are representing. The game would include large boss fights which would allow the player to use its environemnt to get specific angles on the enemy to hit its weak points to deal extra damage. This idea would be a perfect fit for Sean as he really enjoys creating bug like mechanical objects so he would be creatively in the zone for this game.

⋅⋅* **Love & War** - A real time strategy game where the player recruites the squads they use and the generals that command them by using a simular interface like Tinder. The General's "Tinder page" contains information about their skills, type of units, and any special skills that they have. Some generals may seem a little too good to be true however, and the player may be "catfished" by the general when they get a squad of units that they were not expecting. The class liked this game because of its different take of an RTS and the idea of a Tinder interface for the unit creation/selection. 

⋅⋅* **Daedalus Trials:** This is the 2 Vs. 2 maze running game. The game has a builder who sets up traps within the maze using a certain amount of points to purchase them. The runner of the enemy team then runs through the trapped maze while the allied runner runs through the other team's maze. The runner's job is to get through the maze before the oppoenent's runner, while at the same time picking up points in the maze for the builder to purchase more traps with and to purchase upgrades for the runner itself. The builder's job during this part is to talk to the runner and indicate points of interest to the runner and help them through the maze itself. The intended experience is to create cooperative gameplay between the runner and the builder like with the game "Keep Talking and Nobody Will Explode," so that the players on both teams have to work closely together.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Currently, I view the Daedalus Trials game to be the safest game out of all of them. It has the strongest foundation for what could be potentially a good game. However, there is a chance that the game will not create the cooperative experience that is being looked for, and that won't be tested until the prototype is much more refined to be able to test this. So in the timeframe now, I do not know if this game will end up being much more waterfall than agile because there will be no way to test for the wanted experience until after a lot of the game is put together. I also talked to a friend of mine, and out of all of the ideas, he thinks that its the most generic out of all of them as well, which I can see because it doesn't have a hook like the other two game ideas. Out of the other two, I like the Arachnotank game the most because its the one that seems to have the most grab for Evan and Sean, and even though I am worried about some mechanics/systems in the game, I think it would be a very rewarding game to make.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The last bit of team activity we did this week was picking a team name. Basically we didn't know what we wanted to be called so I suggested that we just randomly shouted out random things and wrote them down to see where it would lead us. It was a fun exercise and we came up with our final two being "Quantum Toothpaste" and "Wrong Warp Games." In the end, we decided on Wrong Warp Games to be our team name as its a little less childish, a funny concept in the gaming community, and as a game studio, it would be best to have a game related name.

This Weeks Work: Prototyping and Risk Analysis
------
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I focused on some preliminary documentation regarding each of the differnt game ideas we decided on and analysed the potential risks of each one from the programming perspective. The risk mainly was rated by my comfortability with each of the different mechanics and systems that were being discussed in Evan's design documentation. Overall, I wrote that I thought that the Arachnotank was the riskiest as it included a lot of enemy AI, and with the central idea that the tank can climb up onto different surfaces, the camera movement would have to be smooth so that it wouldn't be jarring to the player. The Love & War RTS game's complexity would also be AI related with unit movement and combat along with the networking aspect. This idea has the least intrigue to me out of all three ideas. Lastly, the maze runner game has the least compllex mechanics out of all the ideas, and I've already broken down the code structure in my head for how the architecture would be built. Even though this game would be the easiest to program potentially, and that I've started working on the prototype already with Evan, I don't think that it may be the best game for the team overall. I think that this is not the time to be playing it safe.
