The Art of Shaving Yaks
------

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;When something takes a long time to fix, and becomes a continuous string of smaller tasks that leads to more problems in a never ending spiral of work, this is what programmers call yak shaving. I encountered this while working on my AI this week while I was debugging my path storage system. At the end of last week, I knew that there were a few bugs that I had to squash out of the system, but I didn't think it would end up being too much work to complete the system and begin work on other tasks needed to be completed. Instead what I got was like pulling the end of a thread that I thought would be short, but instead of was unraveling a huge blanket of issues instead. I started working at 12pm the day that I started debugging it, and I stopped at 10pm that night. 

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The main issue that I knew I had to fix going into the work was that I noted during my work the previous week that for some situations, the path would be returning a path, but it wouldn't be the actual shortest path. I envisioned that the main issue was connected to how I was processing the different points within my depth first search, and that fixing this issue would be about an hour of debugging. But instead I ran into a long series of issues which would eat up the rest of my day where every step along the road was like one step forwards and ten steps back. In the end I came to the final conclusion that the depth first search that I thought worked well for finding the paths instead has a major critical flaw within it, and makes it impractical for what I need it to do. So in the end, it took a whole days work of ten hours to find out that I have to rip out a part of code and replace it with something else that can do what I need.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I've had run-ins with yak shaving before, and it comes back to some of the flaws that I am trying to work through as a programmer: my tendency to want something to be perfect, and not knowing completely how much time something is going to take me. I get very transfixed on trying to work on something to make it for what I think is perfect that I am more willing to try and work through the long list of neverending small tasks to get it to the point that I am happy with. With not knowing how long something is going to take me completely, these smaller tasks that I sign myself up to try and fix may turn into larger tasks than anticipated. In this situation, I could understand the issue with the system early on in the work, but I wanted to try to fix all the issues and make what was already there work without having to rip it all out and replace it with something else. But all this got me in the end is the same conclusion that what I have is not good enough and that I need to replace it with something else and a lot of time spent on nothing. There were some issues that did fix that I may have ran into later, so hopefully the replacement process won't be as tedious as this work.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;If I was more aware of the time that I was spending on one task and had decided to move on with other tasks, maybe I would have more to show for this sprint. The system that I was trying to debug is important to one component of the game and will need to be fixed, but there was other stuff that I could have done that was unrelated to that issue. I recognise now looking back that this is the importance of sprint planning, where if I spent too much time on this one task, I should just move onto the next task that I need to do and I can make more dedicated time to work on the task for the next sprint. Sometimes it is hard to plan for unforseen issues that may come along with a task, but it is important to do the other tasks required and not to get too caught up on one issue. As for now, I did find some resources that I can use to fix the issue, and in the future I'll try to make sure that I'm not trying to shave any more yaks and that I just drop the issue and move onto something else.
