Spider Week Prototyping - When Sometimes Something Simple Turns Difficult
------

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;This week, my team focused on the main movement and combat mechanics of the spider tank game, Arachno-Tron. The inital work on the movement system held promise as I was quickly able to find resource through some research to help implement a simple spider climbing system. In very little time the prototype had a simple wall climbing mechanic which allowed a simple cube to easily climb up a ninty degree corner. The system was created through the use of a couple of raycasts. One raycast is shot downwards from the player's position and gets the normal of the surface underneath it, and if the player's upwards vector does not match this normal vector, it will lerp its rotation so that it will match. To climb walls in front of it, a forwards raycast detects the wall which will get the normal of the wall in front of the player. The amount that the player lerps to adjust to this new normal is based off of the distance between the wall and the player. Therefore a smooth transition is made when the player meets the wall. However, a problem was immidiately created where the object would not rotate back downwards once going over a ledge. 

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;To solve this issue, I worked alongside my designer Evan to try and create a system which would fix this issue and also feel good for the player to use. It was evident that what I had already made could not deal with all the different cases that the player might find themselves in. One such case is an actual corner case where a player's position is in a spot where three walls intersect. The end product is a "stilts" system which the spider rides upon. Instead of just a couple of raycasts being shot out each side and downwards, we included multiple raycasts downwards and at an angle on each side. What these do is detect where this "leg" is hittiing and the distance between the body and the contact point with the wall/ground. The code then adjusts the spider's rotation by rotating the spider so that the distance between the raycasts on the opposite side are relatively equivalent to the other ones. So if the legs in front are compressed when the back legs are not, the spider will tip upwards to even the raycasts out. This system ended up being very verrsatile and proved that the spider tank concept is actually viable. Because of this, the team is much more excited and driven to work on this idea because there is foundational proof that it is possible and fun to play. 
