First Semester Post Mortem
------

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Starting this semester, I was honestly really nervous. I had never been the sole programmer on any production team before, and I was worried about my capabilities as a programmer to make the game we chose to work on the best it could be. But at the same time, I personally was looking at it as a chance to prove myself to myself and show how far I've come as a programmer in four years. I think that it was very important that I was surrounded with close friends and people I have worked with before because it gave me an environment that I was able to be successful in because I was comfortable with the people that I was working with.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; In the beginning I made sure that the project that we chose to work on for the rest of the semester was something that I was passionate about while also being in the range of my skills. Multiple of the original ideas that we had in the beginning had some very high risk systems to them, and had networking. I have never dealt with networking in Unity before, and I was afriad that if the networking failed, it would tank the whole game with it. If there were to  be any risk, I prefered it to be with AI, another programming subject that I had never programmed before, because I thought it would be much lower risk to the game. The final decision for Arachnotron was both something I was excited to work on while also only having AI as its major programming risk, and it fit what I wanted to do perfectly.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Because the player can be on any surface within three dimensions, it created a lot of challenge for how the AI had to be programmed. For the ground enemies, I had to figure out how to get the Unity navmesh to work on any surface within an environment. In the end it was not the best solution but it was the best solution at the time and cut down on a lot of possible production time put into it. For the flier enemies, I wanted to create a tool to allow the designers to be able to allow the fliers to move around on paths while fixing the problem of 3D space. The result of this was the node system which a lot of the AI was built upon. I would say in reflection that there is a lot of stuff about that system that I would want to work on more in the future. I think that despite it being a simplistic and user friendly tool, it was a little to restictive in how the nodes could be set up sometimes. Also, some of the debugging tools built into it created confusion which I had not predicted. Overall, I am very happy it works especially with the amount of time I put into it, but I think that it can be expanded on further.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Speaking of time, time management was one biggest things that I was working on this semester, and admittedly, still working on. Because I have not been programming as long as others, I find it hard to judge the amount of time it will take for me to do some tasks. I will admit, I was the one individual who overscoped himself the most during the sprints as I would overestimate how much time I would be able to work during the sprint. I also had to deal with a little bit of yak-sahving where I would chase down small issues for too long which would result in me not getting as much work done as I possibly could have. At the end of this semester, I think that I have gotten better to let go of the smaller problems in favor of moving onto the next task that needs to be done, and I am getting better at estimating my time, but it is something that I still need to work on.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; In the end, I am very satisfied with the work that I have done this semester. The AI that I made I think was really decent for someone who had not as much expereience programming it, and some of the other systems that I made was really cool as well. This includes the spider inverse kinematics to allow for the legs to move realistically in the environment, and other backend systems such as how the world loads and resets as the player progresses and is killed by the enemies. 

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; During the final weeks of work, I felt like the team felt like a really small family. We had way too much fun making the final presentation and practicing what we were going to say. Needless to say I was still pretty nervous, but I was confident since I was able to do it with my teammates. They are definitely the ones that helped me grow as a programmer, and as a game developer in general. So I cannot thank them enough.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;This last bit may be going back a little far back, but I find it to be very important to me. When I came to the college, I had no previous programming experience, and I did not know whether or not programming or specifically game programming would be the right choice for me. Throughout my college career, I have been surrounded by very talented programmers and I had always tried to compare myself to their level as that's where I thought I needed to be. As a result, I have dealt with a good amount of imposter syndrome over the years, which sometimes has caused me to question myself and my skills in this major. Even though I have done well in my classes, I hadn't felt a true sense of validation for my skills. For production 2, I was very happy with how my game RV Punch turned out, especially with it getting multiple awards, but at the same time I still didn't feel completely validated because I thought that the other talented members of the team were carrying me. 

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; But Arachnotron feels different. This game is the first time that I feel completely validated as a game programmer and proves to myself that I am in the right major moving towards the career that I will enjoy. Despite the AI that I programmed in the game being somewhat rudimentary, it was the very first time I had programmed AI in a game, and the results proves my capacity to learn and execute different subjects that I may not be familiar with. This gives me hope that this means when I get into the industry itself, I will have the capacity to be able to learn the new skills they give me, and be able to execute with these skills for the development of the game that I work on. 

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; It isn't only my work that makes me feel satisfied with myslef and the game because my peers have helped give me this sense of validation too. During the course of the game, I kept getting complements about how amazing the game and how fun it was. I would be told that it is one of the favorites of the first year students, and that it was considered to be the most fun game that they had played out of the capstone games. I was also being told contantly that the game was guaranteed to go through to the next semester with no problems, and lots of other programmers expressed their interest to work on the game if their game were to be cut. Finally, what really stuck it to me was the thunderous applause the game got when we were called to present during presentation night from the crowd, and when we finished. All this is not to be intended to be bragging, because all these kind complements that were being given to me and the game meant a lot to me as an individual who had not felt completely confident with himself. If it were not for all of these kind words, I may not feel as satisfied with my work right now. But today, I can look at my work and think about what has been said to me and think, "I did that."

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Looking towards the next semester, I feel very confident moving forwards in both capstone and future employment, but there is a lot of work to do. For capstone, I'll be my team's lead programmer which is the first time that I have been in a leadership position. I've already had moments where I've had to answer very specific programming questions that I had had not thought that would need to be answered. I think the biggest challenge will be dividing up the work so that every programmer is satisfied with what they are doing. Furthermore, I've had the luxary to be able to work with close friends on past projects, so doing the work on those projects was very easy because we were in sync with what each person wanted to do and just did what needed to be done. With two new porogrammers that I have never worked with, on top of the other ten members on the team, it will be a greatly different expereince.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; For my future career, I've been given tips about how to better prepare myself. During the development cycle, I went up to the Montreal International Games Summit and was able to talk to some alumni who have accepted jobs in the area. This person worked at Ubisoft and shared the same trait that he did not have any previous programming experience before entering college too. I asked him about the programming that he was doing and was told that he is using modern C++ techniques which I had just started learning. He recommended to me to learn the new material, and at the same time practice with websites like codefight. So next semester I plan on doing just that, and better prepare myself as a future employee of the industry. I believe that Arachnotron will be able to get me possible interviews, and then all I need to do it better my skills further to get hired. In that thought I think the void at the end of college seems a lot brighter.
