
Reflecting on the Current State of the Project and the Work Moving Forward
------

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Currently, Arachnotron is looking at a little less than a month of development time until the official pitch before Thanksgiving break. I am feeling really good with the game for where it is at right now, and I'm still happy with the game idea and the rest of the team. I have high confidence with my team's capabilities to be able to have a very strong presentation at the end of this production cycle. Looking back at what I have accomplished, I am happy with what I have been able to make so far. The AI in the game has been my pet project throughout the production of the game, other than working on the movment in the beginning of the game's inseption. The AI has seen major improvements where after this past sprint, the pathing system is finally fixed and AStar pathfinding has been implemented into the game. This pathfinding fixed the hole within the node connection system that I created a couple of weeks prior. Two sprints ago, I was confused as to what path I should take to fix the issue and asked my teachers for help. In the end, I think that making my own solution to the problem was the best because it was a solution to my own problem that I originally created, and going a different route would have taken more time to implement a whole new system, which may have caused a brand new set of issues. Other tasks I completed with the AI was patroling for enemies and cleaning up the flyer and ground enemy AI. These implemnetations and changes were possible since the node system is complete and acts as a foundation to the other AI systems within the game. The patrol enemy moves around along a set of points that the user gives it, and it will retrieve the list of points it needs to move to along the path given to it by the grid graph which stores all of the data prior to the game actually running. The flier enemies also now seek towards the player when in range and will stop and shoot in in attack range.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The next set of tasks that I need to do are also going to be challenging. I am starting work on inverse kinematics for the spider walking animation and the state machine for the boss fight while also cleaning up the current AI further. Because the AI for the basic enemies are in a very stable state, the tweaks that need to be changed should not be too difficult. The inverse kinematics are going to be a little bit more difficult as it is something that I have no expereience doing anyting like it prior. The system will allow the spider's legs to be placed in realistic positions while climbing over different surfaces, and will create dynamic animations which will mean that Sean will not have to make animations for every scenereo. I am very excited to get started on it, and I know that the rest of the team is very excited to see what inverse kinematics can do to solidify the feeling that you are in fact playing as a spider. I plan on starting with researching and creating an initial system, and ask for other help from my peers who have done simular systems. For the boss AI, my confidence is also high because of the success so far with the other AI in the game. It will be important to create a good state machine that can be used for the boss' Ai, so that the system is robust enough to switch between different attack states against the player. My goal of the state machine also follows one of the core technological design pillars, and that is trying to make simplistic tools that designers can use that is connected to sophisticaed back end systems. So for the state machine, I want to create a very flexible structure so that any designer can make unique AI patters easily, just by dragging in different states into the state machine, and it will work. There is a lot of work that needs to be done, but I'm enjoying the work and am finding it satisfying, and I look forward to the challanges that these last two systems will present.
