Reflecting on the Past and Looking Towards the Future
======

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;This capstone will be a new experience for me. The last time I had to work solo as the main programmer on a project was back in sophomore year in production 1, yet those projects were much smaller than the task that lays before me now. I have worked on some solo projects on my own, but nothing that has been followed through to completion and have mainly turned out to be mostly practice and to experiment with tools that I have not used before. So in a way, this year is a way to prove to myself that I am in a good spot with my skills, education, and how far I've come as a programmer. 
     But I wouldn't discount my past experiences working with others, as they have been very helpful in my learning. Last semester I worked on RV Punch, a racing game where you play as RV's equipped with giant mechanized fists, for production 2. The game was super successful as it had really good showings at the midmortem cuts, and won awards at the Champlain Games Festival and later at Games Fest. I'm proud of the product that we made and what we achieved. In the back of my mind though, I don't know if I'm completely satisfied. Perhaps it could be the result of some mild imposer syndrome, but I feel like I haven't proven myself to myself yet, and that I'm still less skilled as those around me. So I see this capstone as an opportunity to prove to myself that I am skilled enough to work in this field, and I will strive to get the game to move forwards to the next semester.

The Beginning of the Concepting Phase
------

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;When coming up with ideas, we took largely into account whether an idea interested us, if the idea was too broad or too scopey, and whether it fit into our skill sets. Sean is an amazing hard surface artist, and Evan is an amazing designer who knows how to use the Unity editor efficiently.  A common thread seemed to come about with all of our ideas: Evan and Sean both really like the sci-fi genre, so most of the game ideas came from that inspiration, and Evan wanted to focus on a game that created a cooperative experience between multiple players to achieve a common goal, like the game Overcooked. Personally, I think that its more important if both Sean and Evan are comfortable with an idea than I am, as they will be the ones making art and designing it. That being said, I did speak up a few times about a few areas that I'm not completely comfortable with, such as AI for example. A lot of our ideas seemed to need networking which I haven't used Unity's networking before so I will have to learn it but I think that it will not be that bad. 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Some of the ideas that really stood out for me on a programming level is the game "All's fair in love & war" which is a concept where the player creates an army by recruiting them from what they see on a website or app similar to Tinder. This gives the possibility for randomly created units within the game will create new experiences every time it is played. At the same time, a pet project I had worked on in the past was based off of the idea of completely randomized units, and it would be fun to integrate that system into the capstone project since I've had some experience with it. Another idea which became a theme was the idea of a "spider tank" and "flame beetle" which Sean had talked about. We discussed ideas like an arena game where the little mechs could fight each other in a large arena, or if the spider tank could be a smaller component in other ideas. One last idea that I'm very curious about is a game where the player character's consciousness is integrated into a disk where they can take control of other robots. I have some ideas of how the disk could move from one robot to another, where you could leave the robot and move as a disk to climb into other robots. I will have to look into some tools like cinemachine to make the camera transitions smooth from leaving the robot to joining with another one. <br />  

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Overall, I think that my main job will be making tools to help with Evan's designing. Anything that I can do to make his life easier will greatly improve the production speed of the game. I've already looked into how to make custom editor and tools within Unity, and will be planning on pulling from that knowledge on whatever project we choose.
