Console Programming Initial Plan
------

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;My plan is to create a built-in unity tool which allows the user to easily set up data gathering to then process them through data analytics. I want the system to be flexible to keep track of many different types of variables such as individual values, game events, the time it takes the player to exit a room or defeat an enemy, and positional data of where players tend to move within the environment. Depending on the data being gathered, the raw data can be enough for a development team to make conclusions about their game and take that knowledge further into development. Other data is best represented visually, or studied closer. Therefore, I want to also include data visualization tools built into unity, such as creating heatmaps within the engine itself, and I want to allow the user to also conduct data analytics to make definite conclusions through significant figures. This would allow developers to run studies through QA builds that have slight changes to them, and through analyzing specific data about what the study is focusing on, the system will return a P-value and indicate whether the test conducted was significant or not.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The reason for this topic of interest is because I enjoy making tools to assist in project development, and have made some tools already for my capstone project Arachnotron. The team would like to go to as many QA sessions as possible, so it is my desire to create a tool that will allow the team to get the most out of each QA session to inform possible changes in design. The main challenge of this project will be keeping the interface easy to use, mostly though visual interfaces with some code in the background. Overall, using the tool should be easier than the task it is trying to accomplish. 

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The current unknowns about the project is how I am going to allow the user to choose the different variables to track, from individual variables to full events. I also have to figure out how I am going to compile all the data once a play session has completed in a format that can be reimported into the editor to analyse the data. For Arachnotron specifically, I will need to figure out a way to keep track of a player's movements within a 3D space instead of just a floor 2D space. Finally, I will have to re-research all of the different data analytics formulas and integrate those within the project. If I have trouble with any of these different systems, I plan on cutting the data analytics portion of the tools, as I think that is mainly supplementary to the rest, for the sake of time. And lastly, I do not see any external dependencies on people or resources, so I do not have to worry about the possibility of something ruining progress on the project.
