Updates to the Arachnotron and The Problem with Unity Collisions
------

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; The legs of the Arachnotron may seem as one of the most minor parts of the game, but has one of the most complex systems built around it. The legs work off of inverse kinematics, allowing for dynamic animation of the spider without needing to front load a massive amount of work onto the artists to animate the spider in every position that it could possibly be in. The system that was constructed last semester worked very well for a proof of concept but definitely had its issues. These issues mainly pertained to the end effector of the IK overreaching and breaking the leg, and commonly happened when the character was sprinting and when the legs were too close to the main body when transitioning corners. I've been working on fixing these issues as the legs are what gives the 3D movement fluid feeling and the feeling that you are playing as a spider.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The first fix was adjusting the mathematical calculations of the legs to help prevent over stretching, breaking the IK. Sometimes, the end effectors reach for a target position that is too far away, and in the case of the arachnotron this could primarily be seen with the back legs when sprinting because the legs would be stretching too far towards their original position before being told to pick up again. To help this, I changed the calculations to only move the end effector to the furthest position possible by the IK. In the end this little change helps reduce the amount of snapping the legs do. Furthermore, the system controlling the legs had some problems with telling when to update in time, as it is determined by how far the legs are from separate points as to when to adjust to the new point. The new system that I will try to implement will be decoupled from Unity's standard update. When a spider walks, there is defined walk cycle. The goal of the new system would be telling each leg to pick up in the right order based off predefined times. This way, the updating of each leg will not be defined by how fast the game can update, and will reduce the number of IK breaks in the process. 

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Furthermore, the next main system to implement into the game will be implementing a new projectile collision system. The problem with the current projectile system is that the projectiles are very rudimentary and prone to tunneling which creates inconsistency. This is being caused by the projectile collisions not being determined by Unity because the positions of each projectile is updated per frame and is therefore coupled with Unity's physics and updating system/ For this game it creates both gameplay and design challenges. For gamplay, this creates feelings of unsatisfaction as sometimes shots will completely not register, and for design the projectiles used in the game are integral to creating enemy encounters and designing the ending bosses. To fix this, the new system will be using ray collision/hull collision detection to determine whether a projectile successfully hit a target. This works by moving projectiles along small rays on every update and interpolating along it to detect collisions. This is much better than Unity's physics system as the update only moves the projectile to each new position each frame and detects for collisions, and will fix the tunneling in the game.
