Working Through Greenlight
------

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;This week has been primarily been working through the greenlight stage of the game. The greenlight step focuses on making a complete product backlog for what we as a team think is required to make a completed game, while also acknowledging the risks that comes from each story and task. There is still flexibility however, as we develop the game the team will decide whether to add more features, or cut some others. What is currently being looked at in the greenlight is what we believe should be as a bare minimum in the game. 

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;During the course of this sprint we have had to also apply the breaks on creating new content for the game which has disgruntled many team members. Most members want to go full in and start working on the immense workload ahead of us. Its partly that the team is very enthusiastic about the game as a whole and sees the potential of what it could be, so they want to use every available moment to make the game that they hope for. It also part that we have been taught to not waste time, so many are antsy to get to work. I think this step is very important however, and do not mind the fact that we have stopped feature creation for a week. The planning and paperwork the team does now, the less we have to do and the more prepared we are to possible issues down the line. By acknowledging the possible risks of tasks, not only are we more mindful of the harder to create features that should be focused on first, we also have backup plans if the riskiest features do not work out. Ideally after this sprint, there will be little paperwork in the future and everyone can work through production smoothly.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Planning out all the features of the game has already made a great positive impact on the game. It became clear to us leads while working on the greenlight that we did not have a unified vision of some aspects of the game. This included some discrepancies between how some of the levels would look, general mechanics of some of the levels, and some systems that will need to be integrated into the game. All of this has been smoothed over through some conversation and now we fully agree on what we are making.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; However, there is one point in the game that even though has been accepted, is still going to be heavily watched as we go into production. Because we have taken the time to examine the risks associated with the game we have determined that this part will be the riskiest part of the game. This risk comes from the anthill level with the assassin bug boss. Basically, the anthill level is originally designed to be a dark environment that is supposed to have horror-like tension build up without focusing on the horror itself. The ants in the level are planned to spawn in from the walls around the player in waves, and the ideal system controlling that would be inspired by the system that controls the hoards of zombies within Left 4 Dead which creates rises and falls in the action to always keep the player on their toes. A dedicated sound system would need to be created so that it adds tension to the environment through the music and audio ques. Then finally the assassin bug boss is planned to contain a more complicated AI that follows the player around the environment and will kill the player if it catches them. What is desired is that as the ants push the player back as they are trying to go deeper into the anthill, the assassin bug will be chasing from behind, creating a between a rock and a hard place type of feeling. This boss in particular is very risky and development on its AI is planned on being worked on from the beginning of production to determine if its feasible or not. Back up plans include having more scripted events with the boss which would reduce the complexity of the needed AI.
