The AI Director - Beginning of the Anthill Level (2/3/19)
------
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;This week I tasked myself to being future proofing out the anthill level. The anthill level takes place underground within the mines controlled by the S.W.A.R.M. organization where the robotic ant species mines a special crystal which they put into their fuel to cause all other robots that consume the fuel to become addicted to it. The level came from inspiration during the first semester when we were working on the proof of concept. During the creation of the level for the proof of concept, we had a scene where the whole environment was dark and the only main source of light came off of the Arachnotron's front eyes and on the rotating cannon itself. This gave us the idea to have a dark level where light would end up being one of the main mechanics.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The anthill level is very unique compared to our other levels. Other levels focus mainly on some sort of traversal challenges or run-and-gun type of gameplay. The anthill level however is a much more immersive type of level which focuses on building tension within the environment. The main features of this level are the ants themselves, and the "boss" of the level, the assassin bug. First, the main idea of the ants is that they swarm the player in large groups at a moments notice, and the player can only see them via their red eyes glowing in the darkness. The assassin bug is an unkillable  creature which chases the player which the player has to use tools available to them in the environment to disengage themselves from it. The goal of this level is not to be horror based however, as the main goal is not to scare the player. The main core of the game is the ability to climb the environment and be able to kill your robot bug adversaries with your armory of weapons. The ant swarms allow for plenty of targets for the player to get their destruction satisfaction while the assassin bug forces the player to use their environmental mobility to get away from it. 

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The main feeling that is trying to be captured within this level is mostly comparable to Valve's *Left 4 Dead* series, and the work and research I've done this week is in inspiration of the game. *Left 4 Dead* is not meant to be a horror game, but a fast paced survival shooter which builds tension through hoards of zombies and special infected. This tension building is the main goal of the anthill level overall, and valve was able to do this through their Ai Director (AID) which kept track of the survivors and adjusted the enemies within the environment accordingly. This creates a unique experience every time a level is played because the AID will spawn zombies differently each time.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I've been researching the AID system, and working on implementing a version of how the system controls the enemies within the environment for the anthill level. If successful, the anthill level will create the desired tension that was being hoped for. 
The way that it'll work will be similar to the way the AID system does it, within different phases:

* Phase 1 - Build up: The AID system knows that there is not a lot of stress put onto the player currently, and spawns enemies within the environment to build up this stress. Stress will be build up with the player kills ants within a close proximity to it, and when being attacked. These initial enemies will be aimless wanderers that are put in the player's way to force tension to build. As more tension builds, the more enemies will start to spawn.

* Phase 2 - Peak: The AID system recognizes that the player has hit a predetermined threshold in stress levels, and hits the player with one more large play to keep stress high. This in the context the anthill level would be a large swarm of ants rushing the player, or the spawning of the assassin bug near the player that chases after them until disengaged from.

* Phase 3 - Relax: Knowing that the player needs a moment of respite, the system will not spawn any more enemies until something triggers the system to begin the process over again. This could be when a certain amount of time as passed, or a specific trigger has activated.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Some final thoughts: the assassin bug mostly acts as something which would appear during very specific instances, and encountering it would immediately increase the player's stress levels, meaning that no other enemies would spawn until it was dealt with. When the player is dealing with an environmental puzzle, the system won't spawn any enemies either because all focus should be on the puzzle and not the enemies trying to attack. Finally, I recognize that all of this is overall decently large in scope, and that is why I want to work on it early to see if the vision of the level is even viable. That being said, I am prepared to put my bid in to cut the level if need be, and focus my attention elsewhere if the team so wishes. I feel like overall I have not tried to put anything into the game that was relatively risky, except for the inverse kinematics on the legs. I see the potential of what this level could be in my mind, and I want to take it and make it possible.
