Wise Words From Karthik Bala
------

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The team was honored at the end of sprint 5 to have Karthik Bala, founder of Vicarious Visions and Velan Studios come to our sprint review class and see Arachnotron. The current state of the build was in a shakey state, since there were multiple systems that broke during the merge of all the team member's work from the sprint, and there wasn't enough time to fix all the different problems with it. But we were able to show the most recent stable build of the game to show the main mechanics of the game, and do a quick run through of the hive refinery level. Afterwards, we then showed how the refinery looked with the new art that hadn't been fully finished yet, and discussed future content we were planning.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;His suggestions for the game, and what he saw in it hit the nail right on the head. The largest praise was that he thought that what we have is something special, and the wall climbing mechanic is interesting and cool. The main mechanic of the wall climbing is something special and makes the game different compared to other shooters. He pointed out that in most shooters the engagements you have with the enemies, and the amount of player interaction with the environment is much more limited, but with the wall climbing mechanic it opens up multiple possibilities because it allows for a third dimension to gameplay. Going off of that, he said that the game should lean on its interesting mechanics as its main strength. The encounters with the enemies and the environment around the players should make the player feel powerful and special. He gave the example of when working on the Spider Man games, fighting the goons as the hero makes you feel powerful because of the special moves and actions you can do against them. In this line of thinking, using the movement mechanics of the game should be the "special move" that feels good to the player. He also suggested that we should focus more on depth than breadth, focusing mainly deepening the main movement mechanic, instead of trapping ourself by trying to make a ton of levels to show it off. Finally, the best part was learning that while he was taking our leave from our class, he told our professors that he was very impressed with the game which means a ton to our team.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;His suggestions rang true on multiple aspects of the current production of the game. Originally we had focused on getting four levels, each with unique level mechanics to make each  more interesting. But from what Karthik said, the unique mechanics should be the core movement mechanics itself, and everything within the levels should support it. We were also starting to focus on combat a lot more than the movement mechanics, and in a way we may have considered the movement mechanics as "done" so we didn't consider it anymore when it came to level design and enemy interactions. The game has slowly became "A SHOOTER game with cool movement mechanics," when the game should be "A cool MOVEMENT game, with shooting mechanics." We had fallen into a mental trap that the game needed a breadth of content over the depth of content, and showing more cool stuff is better than having fewer things show the main mechanic more in detail.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;As a programmer, my new focus after this feedback is to take another look at the enemies within the game. They are too much like cannon fodder that rush the player without creating too much of a challenge. Like Karthik said, we need to make the enemy encounters make the player feel special, and make the movement mechanic more fun to use. So I will be taking another look at the enemy designs, and the enemies that are already in the game, and will focus on making these encounters deeper than "rush player and attack them."
