Make Systems, Not Individual Features
------

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;During the workweek of sprint five, I tasked myself with beginning to implement the Ai of the train boss, the final encounter for the train station level, along with some other miscellaneous tasks. Overall this sprint ended up not being as productive when it came to features, but it did teach me some new lessons to think about in the future. that is what I want to reflect on 
in this post.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;One of the pieces of the train boss was a chargeable canister/object. This object acts as the main level mechanic for the train level as the player uses the tesla lightning gun to charge them to activate new parts of the environment. When programming the script, I made sure to make it as designer friendly as possible, so that the one system could work for anything that the designers wanted in the future. In this one task, I made a system that could solve multiple mechanics and implementations down the line. On the other hand, when I began working on the boss itself, I was having a different experience.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Initially, I was already at fault when it came to the sprint planning this week. Prior to this week, I had been excited to begin the train boss, and had been discussing with the lead designer on the team about what cool actions the boss could do to fight the player. So going into the sprint, I had a mental picture of the stuff I wanted to try to put into the boss to help prototype it a little bit. But during the course of the sprint, the stuff that I had originally been thinking about doing suddenly became moot, because my lead designer said that he and the other designers had the boss flow already made, and the actions that it would take was already concepted. It was a sprint planning failure on my part to confirm with him that the stuff I wanted to make was within the vision of what the designers wanted to make already.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;So I changed my focus onto AI that would satisfy the original vision of the bossfight. But during the course of working on the boss, it hit me that what I was trying to do seemed to focused. What I mean by this was that the way that the work I was doing was very focused on each action itself, and overall felt like the designers could do it all in a shorter amount of time. My thoughts returned to the charge canister that I had made earlier in the sprint, and realized, though I should be the one to work on AI for the boss, I should be thinking more along the lines of creating systems for the boss to make making the individual interactions easier to create. I should focus more on systems because one systems can save time creating multiple actions or mechanics. So therefore, I am going to look into some systems that can help with making the actions of the train boss easier.
