Senior Game Postmortem
------

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The largest area that I have grown as a developer is as a lead. Never before have I had to be a lead for a team, especially a programming team. On all my other production teams, I had always been a programmer in the background who did the work that was assigned and have never needed to take a role of leadership. I think going into it, I was confident that I could lead my team as a person. What I mean by this, is that during production 1, I was complimented by my professor who said "I understand what the team and each individual member needs." I think that I am comfortable leading people when it comes to listening to their needs, and organizing them to be as understanding as possible. As a programmer though, was different. I was definitely not fully confident in my abilities starting off as a programmer. Maybe it was imposter syndrome talking, but I didn't know whether I would be a good programming lead since I hadn't been a programmer for a long time. I think that I have learned how to be a better programming lead because I've learned to start thinking of the general programming tasks needed for the game, and I figure out how much of it could be solved by one system implementation, and also based off of its importance.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Though it may not be tied to the development of the game specifically, I think that the elevator pitch that I did during the production time has helped me greatly as a person and a developer. I plan on starting my own game studio out of college, Milkshed Games, and the skills I've learned from the elevator pitch and this semester of development will help me greatly. The elevator pitch has given me practice and confidence in myself to be able to create connections that the company needs to flourish, and to pitch my ideas. And my hard working attitude will carry me far for the company because we will need to work efficiently and hard for it to be successful.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; One of the biggest regrets I have from this semester as a lead is learning how just to say no, and say something should be cut. During the course of the project, I assigned a task to implement a system which would be integral to many different mechanics. What happened was that there wasn't much work done on the task for nearly 5 weeks straight. In hindsight, that was a ludicrous amount of time to not say anything and a lot of work time wasted. I was worried about that person's contribution to the project because I didn't want to take away the one really cool thing that they could make to put their stamp on the project. I know now that I should have given a strict deadline and cut the losses much earlier. I think there was a lot of technical issues/stuff that needed to be done during the end of the project which had been built up over time, and that could have been greatly lessened if there was not any loss of time.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; I think that strong collaboration comes down to two parts: team dynamic and communication. From my experience over both senior production and even production 2, it helps immensely if both of these work out. Negating any internal strife between team members allows for a more comfortable workplace ecosystem where the the members can focus on their work. Its impossible to make art if you are feeling stressed about the other members of the team. Then with communication, the ability to voice concerns about the project, and discuss the work being done greatly helps with both team moral, and creates clarity of the game's vision.
