"Nick Week" - Cutscene System
------

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;During the week where everyone was off to GDC, I worked solo on the project implementing some new systems into the game. At the beginning of the sprint, I investigated the possibility of using Cinemachine in our game to control the cutscenes within the game. What I found whatever was that it was not going to work out well for the game at all because of the game's core feature: the 3D movement. Like many things within the game, having to have the player on any surface can cause some systems that mainly work within a normal vertical environment. The camera for the player if we wanted to convert it to cinemachine would not cooperate well with the player changing surfaces, and the current camera layout ended up just being better. Another aspect of Cinemachine that I dislike was the amount of setup it took to get one cutscene to work. You would have to set up separate tracks and implement even more cameras with animations to them to get it all set up. Overall it seemed to be a hassle just to get one cutscene done, and if any of the designers wanted to use the system, they would have to spend a decent amount of time watching the tutorials and practice using it to get used to it. Therefore I wanted to make something similar to Cinemachine, but something simplistic enough to be quick to learn and use.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In creating my own cutscene system, I was inspired by how the latest God of War game's cinematics were all done with one camera. What this allowed the camera to do was be seamless between gameplay and cutscene and felt better than having multiple cameras within a scene. I wanted this for Arachnotron, but the same problem arose: how to make it work for 3D environmental traversal. The solution and way I set up the system came in multiple parts.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;First, I adopted a spline system created by another one of our team's programmers which was a spline editor to used for the train level, but had been cut for that specific purpose earlier on. The main idea was adopting this system and its flexibility to create and edit splines into what would be the "tracks" that the camera would move along. The strength of this over an animator use for a cinemachine cutscene is that it gives the person using it much more tangible interface to make subtle adjustments to where the camera will move within the scene, and allows for quick and easy iteration to the cutscene. Next, to deal with the rotation of the camera I also allowed for the assignment of what the camera's rotation should be at the start and the end of the cutscene, and lerp between them. This allows for the same camera used for the player to move to the location of where the spline starts, with a specific rotation and lerp both the rotation and position to create a simple cutscene. If the camera is put in as the gameobject to reference for the starting rotation, it'll lerp from wherever the player currently is in world space and properly lerp it to the correct rotation over the course of the cutscene.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;For further cutscene customization, the system also allows for multiple "cuts" within one cutscene with a chosen amount of delay between each cut. Just like in an action scene in a movie which may have the camera cut to different angles for different perspectives, each cutscene object can have multiple "movements" which include a spline, and a start and end rotation. So when a cutscene is told to play, the same camera can move over multiple different splines and change to multiple rotations to suit whatever the user wants to show in the environment. Lastly, in this way that cutscene is used, the camera snaps to locations and does what it is told, but it isn't completely fluid, so I edited the system to accommodate this. I added a small customization to the spline so that the start and end positions could be overwritten with whatever position given to it. So if the camera is given to the camera as the starting point of the spline, the cutscene can happen from where the player is anywhere in the environment, and return back to its original position allowing for those smooth transitions that I was originally designing for.
