Arachnotron at Pax East
------

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Arachnotron showed at Pax East this year as part of the Champlain College booth on the Saturday of the event. Going into the event, the team and I were interested to see how the general public reacted to our game as this was more of a trade show for people to sell to consumers than anything else. We also knew that some parts of the build were harder than others, and we wanted to see how the general populace would do at playing the game. Since the game has been contained within Champlain College's QA, the QA testers have gotten good at playing the game, which can cause issues with balancing the game because it can make it seem as though the game is too easy because no one from QA is having any difficulty beating it. 

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;What we found at PAX was some consistent issues which did not break the game, but hindered the experience. One of the biggest things was that the enemies dealt way to much damage for some attacks, and especially for players who were not skilled at first-person shooters. Other smaller things were that the players would have issues finding one of the canisters in the second room of the refinery. This isn't much of an issue because that is hidden on purpose with a fuel line connected to it to follow to create some traversal challenge, but it was interesting to see how many people did not pick up on it. A similar issue showed up in room 3, where there are some hidden containers to be destroyed to put down a force field. With the future implementation of the cinematics and a small restructuring of some of the room layout, these problems should go away. 

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Overall, the game received a lot of praise from casual gamers and some developers that came by the booth to play it. Many seemed impressed with how the spider moved and how fluid it is, and others also commented that they really liked the premise of the game, saying it is very different from other shooters that they have played. One of my favorite people who came to play the game was a little kid who loves spiders, and his mom said he instantly wanted to play it when he saw the Arachnotron. The other person I talked to was another company owner who is situated in Montpelier Vermont, and we got talking about the game and Vermont in general which was really cool since I didn't expect to see someone from home at PAX. I am happy how the game was received, and now all the game needs is some polish and some fixes, and it should be all set.
